[Music]
the Oval Office inauguration day rose
garden signings and Secret Service
agents with dark sunglasses and cool
risk radios for a moment forget all of
it
toss out everything you know about the
president now start over what would you
do if you had to invent the president
that was the question facing the 55 men
who got together in secret to draw up
the plans for a new American government
in the summer of 1787 in Philadelphia in
the same place where the Declaration of
Independence had been written 11 years
earlier declaring independence had been
risky business demanding ferocious
courage that put lives and fortunes in
jeopardy but inventing a new government
was no field day either
especially when it's summer and urine
scratchy suits and the windows are
closed because you don't want anybody to
hear what you are saying and the air
conditioning doesn't work because it
won't be invented for nearly two hundred
years and when you don't agree on things
it gets even hotter for the framers the
question they argued over most while
writing the Constitution and creating
three branches of government had to do
with the executive department one man or
three to do the job how long should he
serve what would he really do who would
pick him how to get rid of him if he's
doing a bad job or he's a crook and of
course they all meant him and he would
be a white man the idea of a woman or an
african-american for instance holding
this high office was not a glimmer in
their eyes but the framers knew they
needed someone who could take charge
especially in a crisis like an invasion
or a rebellion or negotiating treaties
Congress was not very good at making
such important decisions without debates
and delays but the framers thought
America needed a man who was decisive
and could act quickly they called it
energy and dispatch one thing they were
dead set against the
would be no king they had fought a war
against a country with a monarch and
were afraid that one man with unchecked
powers in charge of an army could take
over the country instead they settled on
a president and laid out his powers in
article 2 of the Constitution but who
would choose him not the people they
were to liable to be misled as one
framer worried not the legislature that
would lead to cabal and factions got it
electors wise informed men who had time
to make a good decision and if they
didn't produce a winner then the
decision would go to one of the other
branches of government the Congress the
House of Representatives would step in
and make the choice which they did in
1801 and 1825 in the long hot summer of
1787 compromises were made to invent the
presidency like counting slaves as
three-fifths of a person giving the
president command of the army but
Congress the power to declare war and
unlimited four-year terms
since then some of those compromises
have been amended and the men in office
have sometimes been too strong or too
weak but if you could start from scratch
how would you redesign the Oval Office